Hey, welcome
to play-testing time! This is exciting, we're getting pretty close to shipping
our game! We're not really shipping it anywhere with this one, but still, it's a
fantastic run through! In this video, we're going to talk about how having someone else play-test
your game is vital. It's got to be a third party. Silently take notes, if you can
or even record the screen if possible. Immediately go away and fix
obvious bugs, things that really should work that don't. But for improvements,
do consider a second or third option, because one person's suggestion of an improvement
may be the next person's worst nightmare. Repeat until the bug
stroke issue rate plateaus. That means, keep trying it on different people
until the bug or issue rate plateaus. Now, realistically, with this simple game you really only
need to test it on one or two other people, but let's dive in and see how that's going to work.
So, I want you to play-test the game. Find somebody else,
Skype them if needed, do whatever it takes to find another person to
play your game. You really need the perspective of a third party here, if at all
possible. Worst case, zip up your project, your source code, and share it in the discussions, and ask
other students to play-test for you. And if you see another student asking for
a play-test, please help them out by doing it. Share the bugs
and improvements you find in the play-test, in the discussions. Make it
clear which version you're commenting on. Is it your game, is it somebody else's game, or is it my
game? And if you want to play-test my game, it would really help me.
Download it from there, github etc.
Now, you can get hold of all of the lecture states from there, by the way, by
going to Commits, but if you just click that link, that will take you directly
to the download for the project in its latest state. So, go ahead, pause the video, and do some
play-testing! Have fun!
OK, welcome back! So, this is what I found from my
play-testing actions, thanks to Lizzie my wife! We need to remove the new line,
before the the BullCowCount, so that things are grouped together a little bit better. Let me
show you that! So, when we type a word in, she's trying to guess
what the word is. Say it's smart or something like that. It says "Please
enter a 6 letter word." So, we say mall... I don't know,
plant, planes, or something. Now, and then we put another word in,
planet. I'm being very unimaginative. Look you see
it's not. It becomes quickly not that obvious which
result the BullCowCount relates to, so I'm going to
move this space between the BullCowCount and your guess, so at a glance, you can see what's
related to what. So, that's what that feedback means.
What else have we got? Tell the user how many guesses they have.
We don't know how many guesses we've got left there, so we need to do that!
Our feedback was, it's all a bit "left brain", or whatever that means! [Laughs] We need some ASCII
art or something like that in there. That's a good idea! And there's a spelling error! "Better luck next
time!" at the bottom. So, let's dive in and get all those changes
made. So firstly, this new line before the BullCowCount, where
is that? Well, I think it's in here,
in GetValidGuess. We put a new line
in, just before the end of the while loop. I'm going to get rid of that new line, so
it's not there every time, and then, I'm going to put a new line in
after each specific error message, like this. A double new
line, because that's really what's happening, we're doing new line twice. That's a bit more
semantic or meaningful. Let's check this works! So,
hold on, I should be in Control, F5, not Debug Mode.
"planets", "Please enter a 6 letter word." "planes",
Bulls, Cows, 5. OK, that's all good! Let's
try another word, "planee". Please enter another word without repeating letters.
Good! So, I think we've got the BullCowCount
sitting next to the word very nicely. That's
good! Alright, what was the next thing on the list? Tell the user how many guesses
they have left! Hmm, yes so let's search for the word
try, do a Control, F, try,
and see if we can find where it says try. There you go!
So, here we are inside GetValidGuess again,
and we tell the user to try the CurrentTry.
But what we want to do is we want to say try and then
CurrentTry, and then something like this. " of "
and then
<< BCGame
.GetMaxTries();
and it's a method. And then, I'm going to use another line.
" . Enter your
guess:  "; Does that work? Try space something of something,
full stop, ". Enter your guess: "; I think that should work! Let's try it!
"Try 1 of 3" boom! We're still on 1 of
3. Good! "planes". "Try 2 of 3" planes.
"planet", OK cool! Obviously, I'm not
playing this game properly for speed, in these videos. Great! So, the third thing was it's all a bit
left a brain. We need some ASCII art, and there's a spelling error!
Let me fix the spelling error, first. That's easy! "Better luck next time!" at the bottom. So, that's
done, I don't even need to check that. Now, some ASCII art here, in the welcome.
Well, rather than going through and doing the ASCII art, I'm going to Cut
and Paste the ASCII art in, and then, I'm just going to talk you through a few gotchas
with doing ASCII art. So, I'm going to go get the ASCII art, from a previous
Commit that I made over here, in my Version Control System. And I played
around with this for some time, and that is all the
text I came up with. So, let me come back to
the project, and I think
I need to replace all of that, if I've done it right.
I think I over-replaced one line or two lines. Here we go, boom!
OK fantastic! So, what we're doing now is we're entering
this as the ASCII art. Now, the things to think about with the ASCII
art, I'm using new lines at the start, some of the time, to space things out.
You need to double... Where you want to backslash in your
string, you need two backslashes, so that one escapes the other. You see where there are two backslashes
here? There will only be one in my final result. Let's have a look! Here you go!
"Welcome to Bulls and Cows, a fun word game." Well, clearly there are two of those, so I
need to just remove that one. I pasted too much in. Let's try again!
OK, "Welcome to Bulls and Cows, a fun word game." And look, here we go our bull!
With all sorts of bull like features we want to not look to carefully and some horns,
and then a cow with less bull like features.
"Can you guess the 6 letter" word, and then, we can just go, I don't know,
"planes". Let's just fail the game three times, play again,
and then, it comes back. So, it's a really clear division between the games, and look it's got a
little bit of spirit now, the game, a little bit of art to it. So,
that's cool! In fact, that's it! That is all of the
suggestions. So, I really want you to do your own ASCII art now,
like this. I want to see your ASCII art! Remember, if you want to use a backslash, you've got to use to
backslashes to get one. Use spaces, don't use tabs in here because
tabs will not necessarily space out the same in the Console.
That's really probably all I've got to tell you about it! So, go ahead, do that, please take
a screenshot of your ASCII art, and share it! We want to share this graphically.
If you don't know how to take a screenshot, by the way, then a very simple cheap program in Jing,
TechSmith's Jing. And if you want a trade-up from Jing, you go as far as
Snagit, which I use all the time. So, congratulations on getting this far!
We're pretty much done! I'd love to hear your play-testing feedback
in the discussions, as I said, and we'll see you for the final polishing
and packaging video!